# Harvesting Tools

A collection of code snippets mostly designed to be dropped into the data harvesting process directly after generating the zip starter kit. We welcome tools written in any language! Especially if they cover use cases we haven't described. To add a new tool to this repository please review our [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Usage

- Familiarize yourself with the [harvesting instructions](https://github.com/datarefugephilly/workflow/tree/master/harvesting-toolkit) in the Data Rescue workflow repo.  Within the [pipeline app](http://harvest-pipeline.herokuapp.com/), click `Download Zip Starter` from the page related to a URL that you have checked out.
- unzip the zipfile
- Choose a tool that seems likely to be helpful in capturing this particular resource, and copy the contents of its directory in this repo to the `tools` directory, e.g. with:
  ```
  cp -r harvesting-tools/TOOLNAME/* RESOURCEUUID/tools/
  ```
- Adjust the base URL for the resource along with any other relevant variables, and tweak the content of the tool as necessary
- After the resource has been harvested, proceed with the further steps in the [workflow](https://github.com/datarefugephilly/workflow/).

## Matching Tools and Datasets

Each tool in this repo has a fairly specific use case. Your choice will depend on the shape and size of the data you're dealing with. Some datasetswill require more creativity/more elaborate tools. If you write a new tool, please [add it to the repo](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### [wget-loop](./wget-loop) for largely static resources

If you encounter a page that links to lots of data (for example a "downloads" page), this approach may well work. It's important to only use this approach when you encounter *data*, for example pdf's, .zip archives, .csv datasets, etc.

The tricky part of this approach is generating a list of urls to download from the page.
- If you're skilled with using scripts in combination with html-parsers (for example python's wonderful [beautiful-soup package](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/#quick-start)), go for it.
- if the URL's you're trying to access are dynamically generated by JavaScript in the browser environment, we've also included the [jquery-url-extraction guide](tools/jquery-url-extraction)], which will guide you through the process of exracting URL's directly from the browser console.

###  [download_ftp_tree.py](./ftp) for FTP datasets

Government datasets are often stored on FTP; this script will capture FTP directories and subdirectories.

**PLEASE NOTE** that the Internet Archive has captured over 100Tb of government FTP resoures since December 2016. Be sure to check the URL using [check-ia/url-check](./url-check), the [Wayback Machine Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/wayback-machine/fpnmgdkabkmnadcjpehmlllkndpkmiak), or your own tool that uses [the Wayback Machine's API](https://github.com/internetarchive/wayback/blob/master/wayback-cdx-server/README.md) ([example 1](https://web.archive.org/cdx/search/cdx?url=ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/user/vasel/posters/Screen%20Shot%202016-06-30%20at%2011.15.40%20AM.png), [example 2 w/ wildcard](https://web.archive.org/cdx/search/cdx?url=ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/user/vasel/*). If the FTP directory you're looking at has not been saved to the Internet Archive, be sure that it has also been nominated as a web crawl seed.

Whether it has been saved or not, you may decide  to download it for chain-of-custody preservation reasons. If so, this script should do what you need.

### [Ruby/Watir](./ruby-watir-collection) for full browser automation

The last resort of harvesting should be to drive it with a full web browser. It is slower than other approaches such as `wget`, `curl`, or a headless browser. Additionally, this implementation is prone to issues where the resulting page is saved before it's done loading. There is a ruby example in [tools/example-hacks/watir.rb](tools/example-hacks/watir.rb).

### Identify Data Links & acquire them via WARCFactory

For search results from large document sets, you may need to do more sophisticated "scraping" and "crawling" -- check out tools built at previous events such as the [EIS WARC archiver](https://github.com/edgi-govdata-archiving/eis-WARC-archiver) or the [EPA Search Utils](https://github.com/edgi-govdata-archiving/epa-search-utils) for ideas on how to proceed.

### [Explore Other Tools](./utils)

the `utils` directory is for scripts that have been useful in the past but may not have very general application. But you still might find something youu like!

### API scrape / Custom Solution

If you encounter an API, chances are you'll have to build some sort of custom solution, or investigate a social angle. For example: asking someone with greater access for a database dump. Be sure to include your ocode in the `tools` directory of your zipfile, and if there is any likelihood of general application, please add to this repo.
